there's this brand new artificial
intelligence tool called chat GPT and it
answers all sorts of questions so I
wanted to put it to the test to see if
it could give public speaking advice I
took the topic of my most popular
YouTube video which is how to emcee a
wedding and I asked chat GPT what advice
would you give for somebody asking how
do I emcee a wedding I wanted to put it
to the test to see if my video can
provide more value than an artificial
intelligence tool did I succeed I'll let
you be the judge of that hey everyone my
name is Wade Patterson my YouTube
channel is all about public speaking
communication essentially I want to help
make you a better more impactful
Communicator if that is something that
seems interesting to you please
subscribe to my channel it means a lot
it helps me grow and it allows me to
produce more video content just like
this so as I mentioned this brand new
tool called chat GPT has taken the World
by storm it's done by open Ai and anyone
can go in and experiment with it and ask
questions and it's incredible the amount
of knowledge and value that this tool is
providing and so I went ahead and asked
the question how do you emcee a wedding
let's take a look at what chat GPT had
to say for advice so as you can see I
asked the question and then chat GPT
responds to MC a wedding you'll need to
be organized confident and able to keep
the event running smoothly here are some
steps you can follow to successfully
emcee a wedding step number one talk to
the couple before the wedding to
understand their vision for the event
and get a feel for their personalities
this will help you tailor your emceeing
style to their preferences step number
two create a timeline for the wedding
including all the key of events such as
the ceremony reception speeches and
dances this will help you keep the event
moving at a good pace and ensure that
everything happens when it's supposed to
tip number three introduce yourself to
the wedding party and vendors before the
event so you know who to work with on
the day of the wedding
step number four during the wedding keep
the event moving smoothly by making
announcements and introductions and
keeping track of the timeline be
prepared to handle any unexpected events
that may come up and be ready to
improvise if needed the fifth tip keep
the mood light and fun by making jokes
and engaging with the audience be
careful not to steal the spotlight from
the couple and always keep their wishes
and preferences in mind the final tip
after the wedding thank everyone who
helped make the event a success and make
sure to get the couple's feedback on
your performance this will help you
improve for any future weddings you may
emcee dang some pretty good advice from
chat GPT I'm not gonna lie that is a
well thought out answer and within
seconds it was able to produce that
answer I'm going to break down each of
these tips one by one to talk about why
they're good ideas or maybe add
something extra that chat GPT could have
put in there and then at the end of the
video I'm going to talk about some steps
that chap GPT actually missed the
artificial intelligence didn't think of
these few things that I think are really
important I'll add those on at the end
of the video so the first tip that chat
GPT gave was one of the most important
things this is so essential and that is
to meet with the couple beforehand
because ultimately this is their wedding
and you want to understand their vision
and be able to execute that as the MC
how could chat gpt's answer been
slightly better well I think that
there's an opportunity when you meet
with the couple to be prepared because
in my experience couples will sometimes
ask you for your advice even though it's
their wedding they will ask you as the
MC what do you think we should do or
what is the typical thing to do so
ultimately you want to get the couple's
vision of how they see the reception
playing out however the thing I would
add here is to be prepared in case they
ask you those questions I'm not saying
to tell the couple how their reception
should be but have some ideas in the
back of your mind so that if they ask
you for a advice you're not simply
shrugging your shoulders you have some
great ideas that you can toss their way
and see if they like as well chat gpt's
second tip was to create a timeline of
the event so that everything will flow
in an organized fashion it's hard to
argue with that that is so essential
nothing to edit on this tip it's very
smart very strategic however you as the
MC need to keep yourself organized to
ensure the agenda plays out the way that
the couple would like the thing I would
suggest make sure this is nailed down in
that meeting with the couple prior to
the event go over the timeline ensure
that you're both on the same page and
then however you need to keep yourself
organized whether that's a notepad with
notes whether that's an Excel
spreadsheet whatever it is that will
help you organize yourself have that all
figured out so that on the day of You're
simply quickly referring to your
schedule and and ensuring that
everything happens in a coordinated
fashion I love the third tip that chat
GPT gives as well which is to introduce
yourself especially if you don't know
the wedding party or any of the vendors
go introduce yourself maybe contact
those people even before the wedding day
but definitely on the day of the wedding
shake those people's hands introduce
yourself get to know them there's a
couple reasons for this one it will make
your job easier having that familiarity
that you're all working on the same page
but also
their idea of how something is going to
take place may be different than the way
you've envisioned it so if you can chat
through a couple of the key items it
will really help everything run smoothly
people I'd encourage you to talk to if
there is a day of planner definitely get
that girl or guys information and be
chatting with them if there's a DJ if
there's any speakers you want to
coordinate so that they know when
they're going to be speaking within the
agenda these are important conversations
to have the fourth tip was a little bit
too general for my liking the artificial
intelligence tool explains that you
should make announcements and
introductions but it doesn't go into any
depth and that's why you should
definitely check out my video on how to
emcee a wedding because I go into all
sorts of things like how to introduce
the wedding party talking about special
people you may want to recognize I dive
a lot deeper into what that tangibly
looks like but there was an important
point on that fourth tip and that is to
expect the unexpected which is so true
every wedding I have ever been to
something that is not part of the plan
happens it's just a reality and if you
can be ready for that and have that
ability to roll with the punches you're
going to be one step ahead because I
promise you it will happen at some point
the fifth tip from our AI friend was
another great one and that was to add
humor and to keep the mood nice and
light because it's an enjoyable evening
humor does so many things first off it
builds your own confidence when you hear
laughter right away from the crowd
especially if you can incorporate humor
early you're going to have so much
confidence going through the rest of the
evening but and those of you who know my
channel have heard me say this many
times it also relaxes your audience an
audio may be nervous all of the guests
may be wondering does This MC know what
he or she is doing is this going to be
an enjoyable evening if you can make
them laugh within the first few minutes
they're going to relax they're going to
sit back and say hey this is a person
who knows what they are doing it's going
to be a fantastic evening humor is such
a powerful tool to leverage I'm gonna
push back on chat gpt's final tip tip
number six that talked about getting
feedback from the couple after the
wedding so that you can improve future
performances not that that's a bad thing
it's not a terrible tip but my argument
is that that is not perhaps the best
Judgment of how you did because let's be
realistic if you ask the couple who just
got married if you did a good job these
people are probably your friends
probably know you well what are they
going to say they're likely not going to
say that was horrible unless it really
was that bad they're probably going to
say wait you did a phenomenal job we
loved it and maybe they're telling the
truth but also maybe they're just being
nice and not trying to hurt my feelings
I personally think you you will know in
your gut very well whether or not the
event went off successfully the some of
the conversations you have with other
people you'll have that common sense you
will know that so while it's not a
terrible tip tip number six I felt like
it was the weakest that the AI tool
offered in terms of how to emcee a
wedding so what did chat GPT Miss if
anything I think there was a few things
and again these are covered in my video
that I go over how to emcee a wedding
and the first thing that was not
mentioned is to practice practice is so
important I don't care if you're giving
a speech or you're emptying a wedding
you need to get familiar with what
you're going to say and you cannot wing
it maybe a couple of you can wing it but
it is a very minor percentage of the
population that has this ability to go
off the cuff and even those people I
would argue would be better off by
practicing practicing is so important
whether that's your introductions how
you're going to announce people's names
the beginning maybe you're going to tell
a short story There's an opportunity to
go over it a few times so that you're
comfortable on the day of the wedding
another thing that wasn't mentioned
specifically although it was kind of
covered with the umbrella term of
announcements which was one of the tips
from the AI tool is to give special
recognition maybe there are certain
family members who couldn't make it out
for the event maybe there are certain
people who traveled a long distance to
be there discuss those things with the
couple prior to the wedding make a list
and have that section probably toward
the front end of the evening where
you're going to give give those special
acknowledgments that's something that's
very common in most weddings and I would
have liked to see chat GPT include
something there specifically another
specific is the clinking of glasses a
lot of people once the couple walks in
they start clinking their glasses
requesting the couple to kiss and I
think it's a little bit tacky some
couples don't love it and there's more
creative ways of getting the couple to
kiss I cover some of those ideas in my
how to emcee a wedding video so check
that out if you're looking for a little
bit more detail when it comes to the
description of the wedding party don't
be scared to give some homework to the
couple that is getting married because
you probably don't know the wedding
party that well and you're not in a
position to be writing descriptions of
those people that should be the bride
and groom they have picked their wedding
party because those are the people most
important to them in life and you want
to give them that opportunity to say a
few nice things maybe a few funny things
that gives you some content to introduce
each of those individuals properly a
final tip that wasn't covered here maybe
because it's common sense is don't drink
too much be very careful sure you can
have a glass of wine while you're up
there making announcements saying
various things but drink that very
slowly cautiously because you do not
want alcohol to impair your ability to
do a great job as an emcee once your
evening is finished once you've handed
it off to the DJ and your duties are
complete by all means have a great time
it is a wedding enjoy yourself
but don't enjoy yourself with too much
alcohol prior to you finishing your role
as MC because that is going to lack
professionalism and you want to do a
great job for this couple that has given
you the honor of being their MC I had a
lot of fun doing this video credit to
chat GPT with some great ideas like
knocked it out of the park if you want
to see my YouTube channel sustain and be
around for a long time because clearly
AI is getting up there and its
capabilities Please Subscribe turn on
notifications thank you for taking the
time to watch this video thank you so
much for watching this video if you are
looking for a little bit of coaching
help with your next speech I am
providing one-on-one evaluations my
contact email is in the video
description reach out to me and let's
discuss what that could look like